# Mobile Sensors and Health: Predicting Stress from Physiological Data

## Data
The UVA Predictive Technology Laboratory utilizes Microsoft Bands to implement a mobile device application called 'Sensus'
(https://github.com/predictive-technology-laboratory/sensus). This app acts as a collection point for data collected through the Microsoft Band related to the wearer's health and movements, along with data related to the user's mobile device. Some measurements the deivce collects include heart rate, steps taken and ascended, distance traveled, galvanic skin response, calories burned, and air pressure. These readings are taken at various intervals throught the day, usually every 1-2 seconds. The app also allows for questions to be asked when certain measurements are met, for example if a user's heartbeat exceeds 100 bpm the app may be programed to ask if the user is excercising. The questions may also simply be asked at random times throughout the day or when the user is within the proximity of a certian location. Finally there is a reading that is important which records if the band is in connection with the wearer's skin. Approximately every 1.5 seconds the band recorded either a 0, 1, or 2, respectivly representing the band was not connected, it was unsure if it was connected, or it was connected. To ensure the most accurate analysis possible, we focused only on readings where the recording was a 2.

Our data was collected over a period from August 25th, 2016 until November 8th. 2016. The observations came from volunteers within our Data Mining class, from which a total of 19 distinct devices were recorded, each with an individual device ID. Randomly throughout the time period, a survey question was asked: 'On a scale of 1-5 how stressed are you?' These recordings represented our response variable, and altough the codomain were the integers 1 to 5, the actual range only went from 1 to 4. Due to our concerns with accurate data and a lack of participation, our final dataset was severly cut down from what was originally several thousand observations to only 34. While this created a severe bias within our data, the app was still being worked on and showed some errors that were present.
